## refractray.c

To run in Mac use:

```bash
// this compiles the program
gcc -c *.c
gcc refractray.o nrutil.o -lm -o refractray

./refractray

// as an example input use: ./refractray test.data 0.5 1e-4 
Usage refractray outfile phi0(deg) dtheta(rad)

// to see all the data and press q to escape
more test.dat
```

To run in Windows use:

```bash
// this compiles the program
gcc -c *.c
gcc refractray.o nrutil.o -lm -o refractray

// remember the .exe extension!
./refractray.exe

// as an example input use: ./refractray.exe test.dat 0.5 1e-4 
Usage refractray outfile phi0(deg) dtheta(rad)

// to see all the data and press q to escape
more test.dat
```

## observed_plot.py

This program creates a plot comparing two different observed angles.

To run use:
```bash
python observed_plot.py
```


## interpolate_mac.py

This program should be used on Linux machines only i.e. Mac.

It compares the data values to EACH of the model RH curves and calculates the interpolated value of where the
data point should 'sit' on the curve by using, It then writes these interpolated values to a txt file.

r_model = r_1 + ((r_2 - r_1) / (theta_2 - theta_1)) * (theta_data - theta_1).

The program then outputs a list of 101 * N r_model values for each RH, e.g
0 RH --> N r_model Values
1 RH --> N r_model Values
...
100 RH --> N r_model Values

To run use:
```bash
python interpolate_mac.py
```

## least_squares_mac.py

This program should be used on Linux machines only i.e. Mac.

This reads in data generated from the 'interpolate_mac.py' program and should be used in conjunction with this.
It then finds the least squares difference between these interpolated (R model) values and the actual data (R data) values. 

Generates and writes a list of 101 LS values for each relative humidity to a data/text file.

To run use:
```bash
python least_squares_mac.py
```


## humidity_compare.py

This program calculates the least square differences between the data points and each of the humidity templates generated by 'refractray.c'.
It achieves this by reading in the relative humidity data from each of the RH data files stored in the 'phi0_0.1_files' directory.

To run use:

```bash
python humidity_compare.py
```

## temp_gradient_plot.py

This program generates a plot showing how the temperature varies with alitude above the sea level for different atmospheric stratifactions.
Uses data from 1993, Manual of the ICAO Standard Atmosphere, Third Edition, pages 7 - 14.

To run use:

```bash
python temp_gradient_plot.py
```